#summary advertising in your GWT Application
#labels Featured

 * [http://www.adbrite.com/mb/landing_both.php?spid=96893&afb=468x60-2 http://files.adbrite.com/mb/images/468x60-2.gif] 
 * [http://www.adbrite.com/mb/landing_both.php?spid=96893&afb=468x60-2 Monetize Your Site] - Monetize your site like this with there referral program.

= Advertising In GWT =
 I wanted other people to know that they have other options if you can't advertise with Google's AdSense. 

== Try These Companies For a Spin ==
Try these companies for a spin. Make money with your application, blog, and/or website.

  == AdSense ==
 [https://www.google.com/adsense/login/en_US/ AdSense] - This probably won't work if lots of your site requires login, as what happened to me.

  == AdBrite ==
  [http://www.adbrite.com/mb/landing_both.php?spid=96893&afb=468x60-2 AdBrite] -This is a fantastic way to advertise. It was easier to setup than Google's AdSense. After being denied use of AdSense, I starting using AdBrite. You can also use the referral program in your Google Project for monetization, which is a fantastic option since Google has none.
 * [http://www.adbrite.com/mb/landing_both.php?spid=96893&afb=468x60-2 http://files.adbrite.com/mb/images/468x60-2.gif] 

  == Linkshare ==
 [http://click.linksynergy.com/fs-bin/stat?id=QCdCuKxPYyY&offerid=7097.10000054&subid=0&type=4 Linkshare] - Another possibility in advertising content.
 * For example signup and earn $9.00 referring to netflix. 
 * [http://click.linksynergy.com/fs-bin/stat?id=QCdCuKxPYyY&offerid=7097.10000054&subid=0&type=4 http://tribling.com/images/linkshare.jpg]

 === Note: Need Advertising in Google Code ===
 It would be nice to have advertising in Google Code, for those who spend many hours of there time developing and supporting Google Projects for free! Please :).