#summary Demo GWT GData using OAuth Authentication hosted on App Engine

<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>
<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads-v2-atf.xml" height="100" width="740" border="0" scrolling=0 />

= Demo GWT GData Using OAuth =
 The goal is to get access to my documents with my GWT app. The hardest part is the authentication part, but its not as bad as it looks. Its a bit easier than I thought. 

== OAuth Authentication (Best!) ==
 This time I setup a demo using GData OAuth authentication which was tough at first, because I didn't understand the 3 legged process. Although after finally figuring it out, its quite simple to use. This example demo, shows how the 3 legged process works, saving a token to the JDO data store for use later. I left off checking for a previous token, so it can be tried over and over. I'm impressed how easily the OAuth process actually is now and I am excited to work with it on my larger projects. I didn't sign this demo, so it could look suspicious. I don't do any data collecting other than your google id and authorized token. I added the use of multiple scopes.

 * [http://demogwtgdataoauth.appspot.com Demo] - My OAuth Demo, and works to get your blogger list, if you have some blogs.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FDemoGWTGDataOAuth%2Fsrc%2Forg%2Fgonevertical%2Fdemo%253Fstate%253Dclosed Source] - See the project source here.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/DemoGWTGDataOAuth/src/org/gonevertical/demo/server/servlet/Servlet_AskForAccess.java OAuth Servlet] - servlet that takes care of the oauth

 === Important Note - Register Application ===
 This is important, to get a application consumer key and secret, go here: https://www.google.com/accounts/ManageDomains

 === OAuth Popup Window ===
 To setup the token to Google, I use a popup window and servlet to do the 3 steps.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/DemoGWTGDataOAuth/src/org/gonevertical/demo/server/servlet/Servlet_AskForAccess.java Source] - The OAuth Servlet

 === OAuth Playground ===
 * [http://googlecodesamples.com/oauth_playground/] - OAuth playground, sniff to see whats going on.

 === Step by Step ===
 More instructions made by others
 * [http://ikaisays.com/2011/05/26/setting-up-an-oauth-provider-on-google-app-engine/ Setting up an OAuth provider on Google App Engine] - Very simple instructions made by 'Guru' Ikai.

== AuthSub Authentication ==
 Although I thought this would work, oauth is much better. 
 * [http://demogwtgdata.appspot.com/ Demo] - Demo authentication process and use. currently using authsub.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/DemoGwtGdata/src/org/gonevertical/gdata/server/servlet/FetcherServlet.java Source] - Find the source here.