#summary Text box expansion

<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>
<wiki:gadget url="https://wiki-gadgets.googlecode.com/git/gadgets/ads/banner2.xml" height="100" width="740" border="0" />

= Updated 10/22/2011 =
 I have made this better. Try out the demo - [http://demogwttextexpand.appspot.com/ Demo]

= Auto Text Box Growth or Expansion =
TextBox and TextArea auto expand dynamically changing size during typing into the inputs. Grow the textbox as one types.
 
 * [http://demogwttextexpand.appspot.com/ Demo] - Textbox Expansion Growth Demo
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/GoneVertical-Core/src/org/gonevertical/core/client/input/WiseTextArea.java WiseTextArea.java Source]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/GoneVertical-Core/src/org/gonevertical/core/client/input/WiseTextBox.java WiseTextBox.java Source]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/GoneVertical-Core/src/org/gonevertical/core/client/input/richtext/WiseRichTextArea.java WiseRichTextArea.java Source]

== Cloning CSS and Calculating Size ==
 The challenge is to clone the css from the textbox to a html span and figure out the size and then set it back to the textbox. A textbox is easy to change the size, but the TextArea I have found more difficult because there are more variables to deal with. 

= RichTextArea =
 Couple things I like to note for RichTextArea
 * I've added paste intercepting. This way pasting doesn't add any formatting. Although, firefox/mozilla doesn't like you digging into the clipboard api. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FGoneVertical-Core%2Fsrc%2Forg%2Fgonevertical%2Fcore%2Fclient%2Finput%2Fclipboardapi ClipBoard Api Source Directory] - My clipboard api cross browser impl. (well...sorta)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FGoneVertical-Core%2Fsrc%2Forg%2Fgonevertical%2Fcore%2Fclient%2Finput%2Frichtext%2Fworkaround RichTextArea Source Directory] - Hacking RichTextArea to work with paste and double clicking. 
 
<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>
<wiki:gadget url="https://wiki-gadgets.googlecode.com/git/gadgets/ads/banner2.xml" height="100" width="740" border="0" />