#summary Advantages to using Eclipse IDE

<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads-v2-atf.xml" height="95" width="735" border="0" />

= Eclipse IDE Kicks Butt =
 Compared to Microsoft Visual Developer it really kicks Butt!

= Here's Why =
 # foward to method,field,class with control-click
 # method list (outline) sync up with current view
 # current text highlights on error
 # control space on method('cnt-space' will fill in the methods vars. Huge advantage!
 # library auto import or select auto import.
 # svn access
 # metrics on code
 # console output
 # marks problems on the fly!!!! matching var types, matching object types, correct class def. ...
 # better code formating for cli with brakets {}
 # jvm jit faster
 # hierarchy method syncronization 
 # debugging - variables view sync with source code window, breaks easier to manage
 # windowing windows,views,widgets better
 # you can use any Database
 # bugzilla task integration, this is really cool!
 # Control Up + mouse wheel pages quickly - scroll quickly through code
 # auto suggestion to fixing, like a object type rename objecta ob = getObjectB();
 # Marking //TODO tasktodo is great. marks a link on the right side too.
 # when entering in "string (hit enter)" it will concat the string onto the next line. it will auto add " + at the end of the line and start qoutes on next.
 # when highlighting parentheses across strings {(}((( )))){)}. it highlights the parentheses across strings like var += "{(}(("; var += ")){)}"; This is really cool in mysql query building.

= Other Things Related =

== Mysql JDBC advantages ==
 # JDBC row index set, move anywhere in the recordset, can't do this with ms sql jdbc
 # start,limit query
 # can't move to last record in recordset, to count how big the recordset is, have to loop the entire set in ms sql logic
 # Insert,Update syntax can be the same. insert into t set a=1, b=2, update t set a=1, b=2

== Mysql advantages ==
 # (field = '') = null or nothing and MS you have to go (field is null)
 # (field != '') and not <> cli context

== Microsoft Visual Developer C# disadvantages ==
 # get record that is null throws an error insteading of returning null for the variable, have to try catch all gets annoying
 # object rename,  doesn't understand naming conflicts
 # object hightlight, won't highlight all objects of the same type on selection.
 # object reference, often crashes.


== MS Visual Developer diss ==
 # pauses between pages, takes long time to parse color highlighting
 # hitting space after var constantly fills in random vars if the abrevation matches, not good in most cases!
 # no console output for C# code
 # dataexplorer, can't double click on a table
 # your stuck with ms sql, couldn't do mysql
 # You can only inherit one class. You can not extend more than one. You can't implement another class.
 # notation comments are ugly for methods. I don't like /// it look bad.
 # no bugzilla integration for multi-developer/community involvment.
 # Can't control + mouse wheel to page quicly(scroll) through code
 # cntrl+shift+end goes to end of page, not end of line
 # highlighting text when selecting across 70+ characters, when it extends the screen is not gradual. The scroll jumps way to far at a time. .5 screen width. auto screen scrolling during selection sucks.
 # javascript find function won't follow hierarchy.
 # code formating, doesn't work, with if exp {} spacing sucks.
 # no auto concat when enter withing quoted string. refer to eclipse #20
 # No line breaks unchecking global edit, like a list of all the line breaks in one spot. Eclipse has this

== Most annoying thing about coding with Windows ==
 * Focus on window with mouse wheel scroll. - You have to click on window to focus to scroll, not in linux. Linux wheel scroll Much better!!!!!!!!