#summary Google Code Wants
#labels Featured


= My Ideas For Google Code =

 * *Add Developer toolbar* - add a developer toolbar to debugger, so you can see the div layout, widget layout, tags. Highlight div containers with red border, like firefox developer toolbar. Help determine css style design quickly.
 * Add Adsense, like blogspot add element adsense - win win deal for owner/moderator and Google!
 * Fix the ? marks that show up when the parser doesn't recognize something.
 * Edit Pages in blocks like wikipedia.
 * Blow up wiki editor window (overlay) when eidting, like gmail, when composing, nice for bigger resolutions
 * Separate the HomePage Summary (into its own wiki page) and other blog settings elements to a another tab. Its annoying to not be able to preview hompage/summary before save. Make it show up in the wiki list. Making the homepage/firstpage easier to edit. Maybe allow which wiki page is the first page to show?
 * Demo area (tab) would be really cool, where I could show off the demo
 * include code snippet from svn repository into wiki via include tag <include lines='25-50'  file='source/file/file.java'/ >
 * private project would be really cool!
 * this is a dream, but would be nice if you have tomcat server access with project for your GWT projects. For instance i develop a tutorial, it would be cool to upload it to your tomcat server, so I could breg about it. As well it would be popular as well if I could mesh that in with adsense. Overall it would lead to more people coming to your services.
 * Color code wiki code in textarea box, like eclipse IDE would color code, this would help in wiki editing, OR make your own a wiki rich text editor.
 * add apis to ubuntu repository so updater could notify of the latest updates, and could be auto download via repository. (same for rpm repository). Make it easy for developers to stay uptodate with the latest api downloads. Stick the downloads in /opt/Google/api, add link to desktop
 * I would really like to see stats. how many api (gwt,android) downloads have happened.  
 * Show project popularity, like sourceforge. Show project activity, show project downloads? 
 * Google analytics didn't allow me to rename the domain code.google.com when I set that up. - customize the name for each domain. 
 * Featured wiki links -change link name to liking, in that, add "#Name 'My Cool Code wiki page'" (like #Summary) to wiki
 * 03/22/2008 - wiki syntax, add syntax for links to headings in page - this would help when you use the wiki for documentation and the page is huge.
 * 03/24/2008 - GWT project - date time format, consolidate links for it, to all date time format links - all links to date object and locatization of it
 * 03/24/2008 - [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/overview.html] - in the GWT Docs, have a search bar, to search only Docs within that GWT Project


== Global Google Suggestions ==
 * On Google help page - link to form for reporting a error of any google app!
 * On Google help page - link to form for making suggestions for any google app!
 * On Google help page - link to form for saying good job for any app!
 * search for google suggestion, rank it to the top!
 * ERROR 500: tells you to report error, get the link to goto form to report it!

== Might Be Good Ideas ==
 Ideas that might be good?
 * rank wiki article
 * for user that is logged in - history link - of where you last visited in project

== Good Job ==
 * wow, cool svn browsing now!
 * cool spelling right click!