#summary Save some time setting up GWT source.

<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>
<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-aff.xml" height="100" width="740" border="0" />

= Setting up GWT Source =
 I made this bourne shell script to speedup the GWT source download and setup. 

== Reference ==
 * [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/makinggwtbetter.html Making GWT Better] - This script follows the directions here.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit/source/browse/trunk/eclipse/README.txt ReadMe.txt] - More detailed Eclipse setup directions.

== Setup Source ==
 [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/GWT_Source_Setup/scripts/gwt_source_setup.sh Souce] - Find the latest source here.
{{{
#!/bin/sh
# created by Brandon Donnelson
#
# Help with the download and setup of GWT source
# http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/wiki/GWTAutoSourceSetup - this script is here
#
# http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/makinggwtbetter.html
# http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit/source/browse/trunk/eclipse/README.txt
#

WORKING_DIRECTORY=~/workspace-source/gwt

if [ "$1" = "-h" ]
then
    echo "sh ./gwt_source_setup.sh -o [-o=overrite|replace previous download]"
fi 

echo "starting GWT source download and setup..."

# install svn?
hash svn 2>&- || { echo >&2 "Oops, but you need svn. Install svn.  Aborting setup, Exiting."; exit 1; }

# install ant?
hash ant 2>&- || { echo >&2 "Oops, but you need ant. Install ant.  Aborting setup, Exiting."; exit 1; }

# TODO when something goes wrong with checkout svn udpate won't work...hmmmm (rm -rf $WORKING_DIRECTORY)
if [ ! -d $WORKING_DIRECTORY ]; then
    mkdir $WORKING_DIRECTORY
    cd $WORKING_DIRECTORY
    
    # download third party source libs & gwt source
    svn checkout http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/tools/ tools
    svn checkout http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ trunk

    else 
    cd $WORKING_DIRECTORY
    svn update 
fi


# TODO add export to enviroment
export GWT_TOOLS=$WORKING_DIRECTORY/tools
echo "exported GWT_TOOLS=$GWT_TOOLS to session only"

# move to working dir
cd $WORKING_DIRECTORY/trunk

# build gwt
ant


# now you should be ready for this:
# http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit/source/browse/trunk/eclipse/README.txt#178 - Importing the GWT core projects


echo "Finished downloading GWT source and setup."

}}}


= Eclipse Install Notes =
 * [http://eclipse-cs.sf.net/update/] - install Check Style in eclipse

<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-aff.xml" height="100" width="740" border="0" />

<g:plusone size="medium"></g:plusone>