#summary How to configure eclipse for these projects.
#labels Featured

= Eclipse FAQs =


== Importing My Projects Settings ==
  # You can import these projects into your Eclipse.org IDE. SVN URL: http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
  # Once imported, change your project's build path to the correct libraries. Change the build path library for gwt-linux home directory. I set mine to /opt/gwt-linux which is linked to the current Google Web toolkit download that I have.
   # Location: Eclipse > Right Click Project > Build Path > Libraries Tab >
  # Open the debug dialog in eclipse and look for java application. Select the gwt application and hit debug.


== JDBC Connector ==
 If you want to use this project's mysql jdbc connector make sure you have it in */opt/gwt-linux*. /opt/gwt-linux/mysql-connector-java-5.0.8-bin.jar
 Or change the build path by right clicking on the eclipse project, select "Build Path", then change or add the mysql jdb connectory library.
 # Get JConnector MySQL JDBC [http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/5.1.html Link To MySQL]
 # Eclipse > Right Click Project > Build Path > Libraries Tab > Add External Jar > Add /opt/gwt-linux/mysql-connector-java-5.0.8-bin.jar

== GWT Home Directory ==
 If you want to use my build path from this project install GWT to */opt/gwt-linux*. Or  right click on the eclipse project and select "Build Path", and change the library to the correct location for your GWT Home directory.
 === Setting Enviromental Variable GWT_HOME ===
  If you want to use a enviromental variable
  # Edit /etc/enviroment (sudo gedit /etc/enviroment)
  # Add this
{{{
GWT_HOME="/opt/gwt-linux" 
}}}
  # Or Add it to ~/.profile
{{{
 export GWT_HOME="/opt/gwt-linux" 
}}}
  # Test it in bash/shell
{{{
echo $GWT_HOME
}}}
 === Eclispe Build Path To gwt-user.jar ===
 This is my gwt-linux home directory location, and I use this build path for my projects.
 * Eclipse > Right Click Project > Build Path > Libraries Tab > Add External Jar > Add /opt/gwt-linux/gwt-user.jar

== GWT_EXTERNAL_BROWSER ==

 How to add GWT External Browser envirotmental variable for Eclipse.

 # Edit /etc/enviroment (sudo gedit /etc/enviroment)
 # Add this
{{{
GWT_EXTERNAL_BROWSER="/usr/local/firefox32/firefox"
}}}
 # or add it to ~/.profile (user home directory)
{{{
export GWT_EXTERNAL_BROWSER="/usr/local/firefox32/firefox"
}}}
 # Test it in bash/shell
{{{
echo $GWT_EXTERNAL_BROWSER
}}}

== Running 32bit JVM for GWT ==

 You will need use a 32bit JVM in your build path / Referenced Libaries to work with GWT.

 * This is the easiest way.
 * Change or add a 32bit JVM in Eclipse project preferences
 * install a 32bit jvm from your linux repository. like ia32-sun-java6-bin
 * Goto: Eclipse > Window (Top Menu) > Preferences > Java > Installed JREs > Add JVM 

OR

 === Changing the default System JVM ===
 # for ubuntu - use galternatives
 # Install ia32-sun-java6-bin (install 32bit JVM)
 # Install galternatives (this is how we will change the default JVM)
 # Run galternatives
 # Find Java in the List and choose the ia32 JVM

{{{
#Ubuntu method of getting galterantives
sudo apt-get galternatives

#run
galternatives

#OR

#Another way to do it in shell
sudo update-alternatives --config java
}}}

 === Problems that Occur with GWT and AMD64 ===
 Get this error trying to run a GWT project? like: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS32
{{{
/gwt-linux/libswt-pi-gtk-3235.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS32 (Possible cause: architecture word width mismatch)
}}}

  This Error comes from running 64bit JVM and then GWT tries to use 32bit compiled libraries.

== Configuring Eclipse Memory ==
 * Are you getting a eclipse out of memory error?  
 * [http://help.eclipse.org/help33/index.jsp?topic=/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/tasks/running_eclipse.htm Eclipse Reference Help Link]

 Change paramenters in ~/.eclipse/eclipserc
 This is great for picking the java jvm without editing any files that have strictor permissions
{{{
# ~/.eclipse/eclipserc

#Running Eclipse Options
#http://help.eclipse.org/help31/index.jsp?topic=/org.eclipse.platform.doc.isv/reference/misc/runtime-options.html
#http://help.eclipse.org/help21/index.jsp?topic=/org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/tasks/running_eclipse.htm

# Which JRE to run Eclipse
#JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk - libjvm problematic frame
#JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun - libjvm problematic frame

# no crashes yet
JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.5.0-sun

# Arguments to Java Machine running Eclipse
VMARGS="-Xmx1024m"
}}}

 OR

 Change your file "/usr/lib/eclipse/eclipse.ini". This will change the startup parameters.
{{{
# you may have to change permissions to the file - "sudo chmod 777 /usr/lib/eclipse/eclipse.ini"
#eclipse.ini file - changes start up parameters
-vmargs
-Xms512m
-Xmx1024m
-XX:PermSize=128m
-XX:MaxPermSize=512m
}}}

 Or 

 Change the way it start up with "/usr/bin/eclipse"
{{{
# you may have to change permissions to the file - "sudo chmod 777 /usr/bin/eclipse"
#/usr/bin/eclipse - bottom of file
exec /usr/lib/eclipse/eclipse \
    -vm "${JAVACMD}" \
    -install "${INSTALL}" \
    -startup "${STARTUP}" \
    ${CMDLINEARGS} \
    -vmargs -Djava.library.path=/usr/lib/jni \
            -Dgnu.gcj.precompiled.db.path=/var/lib/gcj-4.2/classmap.db \
            -Dgnu.gcj.runtime.VMClassLoader.library_control=never \
            -Dosgi.locking=none ${VMARGS} \ # <-add "\" too
            -XX:PermSize=512M -XX:MaxPermSize=1024M 
#ADD -> -XX:PermSize=512M -XX:MaxPermSize=1024M like the line above
#this is the one I use on my ubuntu amd64, force quit to see if it loaded
#(memory sizes represent start with minimum MB to and go to maximum MB)
}}}

 Or

 Change the eclipse parameters from command line. This a good way to trace a class not loading correctly.
{{{
#command line
eclipse -XX:PermSize=128m -XX:MaxPermSize=512m
}}}

== Installing Subversive - SVN Team Provider =
 Installing subversion for eclipse. Select team provider. 
 * [http://www.eclipse.org/subversive/downloads.php Eclipse Update Site]
 
 === setup ===
  Setup the svn connector to connect to the svn repository. You will need to configure team settings in preferences.
  * eclipse menu > Window > Preferences > Team > SVN > (tab) SVN Client) > select "SVN Kit"

== Watching Traces of Eclipse Crashes ==
 Does eclipse glitch when you load it. Does eclipse fail to load? Does eclipse crash on loading up or in the middle of operating?

 * Run eclipse from a shell, it will output trace on crash.
 * You can also check log in: /usr/lib/eclipse/configuration
 * User settings are in and user log: ~/workspace/.metadata
 * I suggest only installing one feature at a time then testing it. If you get carried away  you could find yourself reinstalling eclipse.
 * Just a tip I have learned. Install the features from the Europa or Eclipse update sites first, then, install the other features.

== Error: To Many Files Open ==
 You have to run eclipse from shell to get this error output. 

 Test how many files can be open during your session
{{{
ulimit -n
}}}

{{{
#In /etc/security/limits.conf (on my ubuntu linux box)
#sudo pico /etc/security/limits.conf - edit it from shell

#I adjusted this so eclipse will work with more java files
*       soft    nofile          10000
*       hard    nofile          10000

#user specific
#username hard nofile 10000
}}}

== Eclipse 3.3 Update ==
 Update eclipse to europa 3.3.
 [http://update.eclipse.org/updates/3.3/] Put this in eclipse update manager.


= Problematic frame crashes in Hardy =

 == libjvm.so problematic frame crash ==
 libjvm.so problematic frame crash. Ubuntu Hardy Crashes. 
 * https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openjdk-6/+bug/206620
 * Use sun-java-1.5, this seems to fix it.

 change this in your ~/.eclipse/eclipserc file - example above
{{{
 JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.5.0-sun
}}}
 
 == libxcb.so problematic frame crash ===
  I got rid of this problematic frame by uninstalling eclipse and reinstalling it.


= Bugzilla Integration= 
 Integrate buzilla tasklist with eclipse ide.
 * [http://www.eclipse.org/mylyn/] Mylyn Tasklist
 * Eclipse IDE > Help (menu) > Software Updates > Find and Install > Search for new features to install > Mylyn (archived site) > Finished (click) > Mylyn (in window) > Mylyn Integration > Mylyn Bridget: Bugzilla Integration