#summary gwt Tomcat War Builder
#labels Featured

= New Verision =
 I rewrote the builder and updated it Oct 27. I will rewrite my documentation this week for it. 

= Tomcat War Builder =
 Auto Build or Compile a GWT project for tomcat server. Compile your project in a ready to go War archive. Deploy it by uploading the war file to your tomcat server. Quickly deploy your application for testing.

 * It time stamps the display name so you know when you deployed the gwt module.
 * It auto compiles the files into a ~/production folder ready for archiving
 * It auto Imports your dependency jars into the ~/production/WEB-INF/libs folder
 * It auto imports your dependency classes into the ~/production/WEB-INF/classes folder
 * It auto creates a index.jsp home page for easy navigation to project - this is used just in case now
 * Make your servlet application private, configure var in script.
 * Choose the context of your application - ROOT.war or anyName.war to setup the context of your virtual host
 * sets up the welcome page, so it loads whatever.html as the homepage for your applications context.

 == Directions ==
 # Import this Project into eclipse or other java IDE
 # Compile your GWT project in the eclipse GWT debugger before running this script.
 # Set this script's variable ProjectDirectory="/home/branflake2267/workspace/gwt-Project"; to your project's home
 # Run It, In Eclipse Right click on TomcatWarBuilder_java and hit Debug as java application
 # Watch Console for log of events
 # Tweak script to your like

 == Tomcat Setup == 
 [gwtTomcat] - how to setup tomcat up.

 == SVN Location ==
 Download the latest version from SVN. [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/gwt-TomcatWarBuilder/src/com/tribling/gwt/TomcatWarBuilder/TomcatWarBuilder.java Source Code]

 == Windows OS ==
 This should work fine on windows if you change the path forward slashes to back slashes.

 == Example War Created ==
 [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/downloads/list Downloads] - War file created from the RPC Advanced Eclipse project

 == Added ==
 * 03/14/2008 - added gwt 1.5 support for directory /std ouput
 * 01/18/2008 - Added time stamp in the name so I could tell when I deployed it. [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-TomcatWarBuilder/src/com/tribling/gwt/test/TomcatWarBuilder/TomcatProductionBuilder.java Download Most Recent From SVN Repository]
 * 02/20/2008 - added servlet application security. fixed regexp.
 * 04/02/2008 - added War rename, so that I could rename application context (like ROOT.war)
 * 04/02/2008 - fixed code up a bit
 * 04/02/2008 - added welcome file list, and or directly redirects to application whatever the name is - doesn't have to be index.jsp, it can be whatever.html as the welcome page
 * works with Milestone 1 and Milestone 2
 * 05/01/2008 - added servlet comments
 * 05/02/2008 - moved around option vars