#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

<wiki:gadget url="http://demogwtjsni.appspot.com/gwt-examples.xml" height="80px" width="470px" border="0" />

= Project Core Engine =
 I'm tired of writing the same code over and over and wanted to deploy my apps faster with an established code base of all the things in the kitchen. This is the beginning of my core module that I will include into my other projects. 

 * [http://core-engine.appspot.com/#account_Things Demo]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/Core/src Core-Engine Source]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/DemoCoreEngine/src Demo App Source] - Source Demo of inclusion

= Alpha Version =
 This is still alpha. I'm am vigorously working on this every weekend and its my intention to make this a mature module, so I can use it in my GoneVertical.com and host it on GAE.

= Documents =
 * [http://docs.google.com/drawings/pub?id=1QRIaj8pAuFaM0fhNpHbr06Kk-GexJgtdkxMLAeU4vIs&w=960&h=720 App Overview] - Looking at the Application. Google docs drawing.
 * [http://docs.google.com/drawings/pub?id=1AUhnP7LWUUCOuCFciJryo3yYYH-Z7CAc-YURtuzdZPA&w=960&h=720 People Overview] - How people relate to the app. Google docs drawing.

== Inclusion Notes == 
 I include this project in my other main projects. There are several steps that have to be completed for it to work.

 # Eclipse BuildPath configuration: Include source folder as src_core 
 # Eclipse BuildPath configuration: Include Project 
 # In Module configuration in *.gwt.xml: {{{<inherits name='org.gonevertical.core.Core'/>}}}
 # In Module configuration in *.gwt.xml: Comment already loaded modules that will load in core.
 # In web.xml: Add servlet path for rpc connection for core, like my demo project
 {{{
  <!-- core include -->
   <servlet>
    <servlet-name>rpcCoreServlet</servlet-name>
    <servlet-class>org.gonevertical.core.server.RpcCoreServiceImpl</servlet-class>
  </servlet>
  
  <servlet-mapping>
    <servlet-name>rpcCoreServlet</servlet-name>
    <url-pattern>/democoreengine/rpccore</url-pattern>
  </servlet-mapping>
 }}}
 # JDO ?