#summary Eclipse projects listed in trunk
#labels gwteclipse,gwt,gwteclipseexamples

= Google Web Toolkit Examples with Eclipse =

 # *RPC Example Basic* - I used this to figure out how to setup a basic remote procedure call  to the server. [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-test-RPC-basic/ gwt-test-RPC-basic]
 # *RPC Example2 More Advanced* - I used this to figure out how to pass an object from the server to the client side. [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-test-RPC-adv/ gwt-test-RPC-adv] 
 # *MySQL Connection/Query Example* - I used this to test connecting to mysql database and how I could query it. [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-test-MySQLConn/ gwt-test-MySQLConn]   
  * More MySQL Notes here: [MysqlDBConn]
 # *Clicklistener on Widget Example* - I used this to figure out how to observe a widget with clicklistener. (good widget init example here too) [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-test-Clicklistener/ gwt-test-Clicklistener]
 # *Login Manager* - I am working on this to figure login manager. There is more than one way to do this. But this way is working for me. I'll tweak it more over time. I followed the incubator method. [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit-incubator/wiki/LoginSecurityFAQ Google Page Incubator]

= Eclipse FAQs =

== Import ==
  # You can import these projects into your Eclipse.org IDE. SVN URL: http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
  # Once imported, change your project's build path to the correct libraries. Change the build path library for gwt-linux home directory. I set mine to /opt/gwt-linux which is linked to the current Google Web toolkit download that I have.
  # Open the debug dialog in eclipse and look for java application. Select the gwt application and hit debug.

== 32bit JVM ==
Another thing to make a note of. I am using Ubuntu AMD64 and I used galternatives program to change the jvm to a 32bit for runtime. I talk about it in more depth in my code tips blog. More info on galternatives and running a 32bit jvm at runtime. More info here [http://codintips.blogspot.com/2007/11/getting-gwt-working-on-ubuntu-amd64.html More @ My Blog Entry]


== Comments ==
Please send me any comments about my examples. Do you have an example you would like to post?