#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads.xml" height="85" width="480" border="0" />

= Game for Warm Beach Camp =
 I built this large scale outdoor game using GWT for the game logic and DMX to control the lighting. Here's some of the story.
 * [http://gonevertical.org/LightsForChristmas/ Latest Demo] - Here is the latest.
 * [http://lightsforchristmas.appspot.com/ Demo Earlier Game Version] - I built a GAE version, this version still has some UI errors, I had to split b/c of the dmx drivers.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/LightsForChristmas/src/org/gonevertical/loc/client Source] - latest source form the Ubuntu computer that runs at the camp.

== Why ==
 I wanted to donate some fun to Warm Beach Camp [http://warmbeach.com/index.php/lights-of-christmas WarmBeach.com] and in the process learn more. 

== More Work Yet ==
 I still need to do some work so it runs in a standalone mode, but I got by this last year quite well using chrome to run the game.

== Pictures ==
 Some of the pictures of the game
 * [http://picasaweb.google.com/branflake2267/LightsOfChristmasGame# Picasa Photo Album]


== Videos ==
 Some movies of the project
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=17yz6DNXE8s]
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYNCwijvV2Q]
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M3tfw8oKhmM]
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UlAEHfS9gmY]
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vkjibkF0WOM]

== Library Reference ==
 * [http://rxtx.org/ rxtx] - Used for dmx communication
 * [http://www.enttec.com/index.php?main_menu=Products&prod=70304&show=links Entec Usb] - Controller to talk dmx
 * I built it to run only on Ubuntu b/c its so fast to setup and use

== Java DMX Control ==
 512 DMX universe control using Java, RXTX.org lib on Ubuntu. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/LightsForChristmas/dmx/org/gonevertical/loc/server/dmx Java DMX Source] - See the classes that control the lights