#summary testing google gadgets

<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads.xml" height="85" width="480" border="0" />

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=  Project GWT Gadget =
 There are two ways you can get a GWT gadget to IGoogle, one through the GWT gadgets API, which is better. The second is to include a standalone module. 

 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads.xml Source of the example on this page] - Advertising source, stored in the subversion source repository
 
== GWT Gadgets ==
 There is some serious develop going on in the source code. Not sure when the next release is.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-google-apis/wiki/GadgetsGettingStarted Google GWT Gadget Reference] - GWT Gadgets Api
 * [http://code.google.com/apis/wave/extensions/gadgets/guide.html Docs For Native Javascript] - Native Google Gadget JS Docs

== Build Notes ==
 Few things I learned along the way.
 # RootPanel.get().add(widget); - don't use a elementId to place content/app on page
 # Try a basic gadget first before you do a big one.
 # I combined my bigger project with my gadget project, instead of writing an entire gadget.
 # Test it out in the hosted debugger before merging into gadget init()
 # Javascript native calls, don't forget to include those modules as well.
 # Try the compile first before uploading it to Google App Engine
 # Include Style in the project.gadget.xml module (build reference)
 # Testing gadgets in this wiki get cached, so expect some time before the new gadget that you upload may not change at first.

= Examples / Demos =

== Example of Advertising Gadget For My Wiki ==
 This is my first gadget using the xml editor and uploading it to the GAE in one of my demos.

 This is how you add it to the wiki.
{{{
<wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads.xml" height="85" width="480" border="0" />
}}}
 <wiki:gadget url="http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/DemoGadgetXml/war/gadget-gwt-examples-ads.xml" height="85" width="480" border="0" />

== Example GWT Gadget ==
 This is my first gwt gadget, compiled using GWT. This is a fantastic way to get the widget built.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/DemoGwtGadget/src/org/gonevertical/demo/client Source] - this is a very basic simple example to make sure it works, and it does.
{{{
wiki:gadget url="http://demogwtgadget.appspot.com/demogwtgadget/org.gonevertical.demo.client.DemoGwtGadget.gadget.xml" height="100" width="400" border="1" />
}}}
 <wiki:gadget url="http://demogwtgadget.appspot.com/demogwtgadget/org.gonevertical.demo.client.DemoGwtGadget.gadget.xml" height="100" width="400" border="1" />

== Match Flash Card Application ==
 I'm trying to use my mathflashcard. I built a separate project because I couldn't get the RPC to work. I haven't figured out what was failing, but Google App Engine logs where saying that access was restricted and was vague. So I decided to divide and conquer the issue and try only client side code first. Here is my first attempt to bring a bigger gadget onboard.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-examples/source/browse/#svn/trunk/DemoGadgetMathFlashCard/src/com/gawkat/flashcard/client Source]
{{{
<wiki:gadget url="http://demogadgetmathflashcard.appspot.com/flashcard/com.gawkat.flashcard.client.FlashCard.gadget.xml" height="200" width="200" border="1" />
}}}
 <wiki:gadget url="http://demogadgetmathflashcard.appspot.com/flashcard/com.gawkat.flashcard.client.FlashCard.gadget.xml" height="200" width="200" border="1" />



= Trying Other Ways =
 These ways below haven't worked. 

== Try 1 Example of Math Flash Cards Appication (not working yet) ==
{{{
 <wiki:gadget url="http://mathflashcard.appspot.com/gadget-gwt-math-flash-card.xml" height="400" width="400" border="1" />
}}}

== Try 2 ==
 when trying to add the js in, it throughs a frame access error in the console.
{{{
<wiki:gadget url="http://demogwtjsni.appspot.com/gadget-gwt-tooltip.xml" height="100" width="400" border="1" />
}}}