#summary More info on login manager project.

= Login Manger =
 I setup this example to test login manager, to control User access by Username and Password and SessionID. There are many ways you can do this. I followed Google's incubator. You can import my eclipse project or get it via svn. Hope it helps. 
 
 == JDBC ==
 Remember to add JDBC to the build path. More info here [gwtEclipseFaqs]

 == Notes ==
 Google Login Manager Incubator  [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit-incubator/wiki/LoginSecurityFAQ]

 SVN Repository Link [http://gwt-examples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gwt-test-Login-Manager/ gwt-test-Login-Manager]

 == Next Version Goal ==
 I have a more advanced version coming in the near future that I have built for another project and will release it here in march. I have been a little to busy to move it all over into its own project.
 
 == MySQL Setup ==
 I will post the mysql scripts for both the user and session tables soon. I am changing the name-space on alot of code to make it easier on the  project.

 Session Table - store sessions in mysql so it matters not what server rpc request goes too.
{{{
CREATE TABLE `session` (
  `ID` int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `UserID` int(11) NOT NULL,
  `SessionID` varchar(200) NOT NULL,
  `LastAccessed` int(11) NOT NULL COMMENT 'unix timestamp',
  `DateCreated` int(11) NOT NULL COMMENT 'unix timestamp',
  PRIMARY KEY  (`ID`),
  KEY `SessionID` (`SessionID`)
) ENGINE=MyISAM AUTO_INCREMENT=18 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
}}}

 User Table - user identity, I am using Email as Username, but thats easy to change
{{{
CREATE TABLE `user` (
  `UserID` int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `NickName` varchar(50) default NULL,
  `FirstName` varchar(50) NOT NULL,
  `LastName` varchar(50) NOT NULL,
  `UserName` varchar(150) NOT NULL,
  `Password_Hash` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `DateCreated` int(11) NOT NULL,
  `LastUpdated` int(11) default '0',
  PRIMARY KEY  (`UserID`),
  KEY `user` (`UserName`),
  KEY `password` (`Password_Hash`),
  KEY `userpass` (`UserName`,`Password_Hash`)
) ENGINE=MyISAM AUTO_INCREMENT=39 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
}}}

 Email Table - user email's
{{{
CREATE TABLE `email` (
  `EmailID` int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `UserID` int(11) NOT NULL,
  `Email` varchar(200) NOT NULL,
  `DateCreated` int(11) NOT NULL,
  `LastUpdated` int(11) default NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`EmailID`)
) ENGINE=MyISAM AUTO_INCREMENT=5 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1
}}}